Throughout the rest
of this course,
you're going to learn the
techniques required to
develop and deploy an
LLM powered application.
In this video,
you'll walk through
a generative AI
project life cycle
that can help guide
you through this work.
This framework maps out
the tasks required to take
your project from
conception to launch.
By the end of this course,
you should have some
good intuition about
the important decisions
that you'll have to make,
the potential difficulties
you'll encounter,
and the infrastructure
that you'll need to
develop and deploy
your application.
Here is a diagram of
the overall life cycle.
We're going to talk
through it stage by stage.
The most important step in
any project is to define
the scope as accurately
and narrowly as you can.
As you've seen in
this course so far,
LLMs are capable of
carrying out many tasks,
but their abilities
depend strongly on
the size and architecture
of the model.
You should think about
what function the LLM
will have in your
specific application.
Do you need the
model to be able to
carry out many different tasks,
including long-form
text generation
or with a high degree
of capability,
or is the task much more
specific like named entity
recognition so that your model
only needs to be
good at one thing.
As you'll see in the
rest of the course,
getting really specific about
what you need your model to do
can save you time and perhaps
more importantly, compute cost.
Once you're happy,
and you've scoped
your model requirements
enough to begin development.
Your first decision will be
whether to train your own model
from scratch or work with
an existing base model.
In general, you'll start
with an existing model,
although there are some
cases where you may find it
necessary to train a
model from scratch.
You'll learn more about
the considerations
behind this decision
later this week,
as well as some rules
of thumb to help you
estimate the feasibility of
training your own model.
With your model in hand,
the next step is to assess
its performance and
carry out additional training
if needed for your application.
As you saw earlier this week,
prompt engineering
can sometimes be
enough to get your
model to perform well,
so you'll likely start by
trying in-context learning,
using examples suited to
your task and use case.
There are still cases, however,
where the model may not
perform as well as you need,
even with one or a
few short inference,
and in that case,
you can try fine-tuning
your model.
This supervised learning process
will be covered in
detail in Week 2,
and you'll get a chance to try
fine tuning a model
yourself in the Week 2 lab.
As models become more capable,
it's becoming
increasingly important
to ensure that they behave
well and in a way that is
aligned with human
preferences in deployment.
In Week 3, you'll learn about
an additional fine-tuning
technique called
reinforcement learning
with human feedback,
which can help to make sure
that your model behaves well.
An important aspect of all of
these techniques is evaluation.
Next week, you will explore
some metrics and benchmarks
that can be used to
determine how well your
model is performing
or how well aligned it
is to your preferences.
Note that this adapt
and aligned stage
of app development can
be highly iterative.
You may start by trying
prompt engineering and
evaluating the outputs,
then using fine tuning to
improve performance and then
revisiting and evaluating
prompt engineering
one more time to get the
performance that you need.
Finally, when you've got
a model that is meeting
your performance needs
and is well aligned,
you can deploy it into
your infrastructure
and integrate it with
your application.
At this stage, an
important step is
to optimize your
model for deployment.
This can ensure that you're
making the best use of
your compute resources
and providing
the best possible experience
for the users of
your application.
The last but very important
step is to consider
any additional
infrastructure that
your application will
require to work well.
There are some fundamental
limitations of
LLMs that can be
difficult to overcome
through training alone
like their tendency
to invent information when
they don't know an answer,
or their limited
ability to carry out
complex reasoning
and mathematics.
In the last part of this course,
you'll learn some powerful
techniques that you
can use to overcome
these limitations.
I know there's a lot
to think about here,
but don't worry about
taking it all in right now.
You'll see this visual
over and over again during
the course as you explore
the details of each stage